Purpose of the Nation of Men
To support and honor men, teams, and community.

Bylaws

Structure

The Nation of Men is organized to support and honor men, teams, and community.

Making decisions and changing rules

The bylaws are contained in a written Charter.

Changes to the Charter must be ratified by a vote of 2/3 of the membership attending a General Meeting.  Proposed changes must be announced at a Team Leader’s meeting at least two weeks prior to the General Meeting.

There are no proxy votes — only those who attend may vote.

All other decisions are made by the Chief.


Membership

Members must be graduates of the Sterling Men’s Weekend or the Men, Sex, and Power seminar.

Men are encouraged to be on teams but it is not required.  A team is defined as two or more men who meet regularly, for a purpose.  A team can be comprised of both members and non-members; that is, the whole team does not need to be in the Nation of Men.

Dues must be paid in full to maintain membership.


Leadership

The Nation of Men will be led by a Chief (or Chiefs) and a management team.

The leaders will be selected in a Primal Night style process.

There is no fixed term for leaders.  Leaders serve until they are replaced (a leader is responsible for initiating the process of selecting his replacement) or are removed by a vote of no-confidence.  Any team may bring a vote of no-confidence at any time; it is upheld by a majority vote of the members at a General Meeting.  Either way, completing leaders are held in a position of honor.


Meetings

Attendance at any meeting is not required.

There will be a monthly General Meeting, to be held at the same time each month and, if possible, at the same place.  Unless otherwise specified, all meetings are open to all men.  Each meeting is sponsored by a men’s team.

The Chief may call other, impromptu meetings.

Team representatives are invited to management team meetings.


Finances

It is vital that the Nation of Men be financially stable and that its finances are managed openly, conservatively, and legally.

Finances are managed by a Treasurer, who is a member of the management team.  The Treasurer is required to report on the financial status at each General Meeting.  He is required to publish a written financial report in the first newsletter of each calendar quarter.


Dues

Quarterly dues are established by the Chief, in accordance with the budget.  The amount is established on a per-man basis, but the dues are paid by the teams.  Members who are not on a team are responsible for paying their own dues. Dues are due at the first General Meeting of each calendar quarter.


Communication

There will be a regular newsletter.

A voice-mail system will be used to keep teams and members informed.


Activities

All activities must be sponsored by a team.


New members

Enrollment in the Nation of Men will be through attraction — as a natural result of its members participating in open activities and as a result of who we are.


Open Proceedings, Confidentiality

All proceedings are public with the following exceptions:
• Members are expected to maintain the confidentiality of others.
• Some activities will be restricted to members only.
• The mailing list is proprietary to the Nation of Men and may not be distributed or used without the permission of the management team.

The Charter may be openly discussed with anyone.

General Meetings and other activities are open to all men unless specifically designated otherwise.  Certain activities will be open to all members and guests.


Relationship

The Nation of Men is committed to developing open and supportive relationships through events.  The Nation of Men is not part of the Sterling Institute of Relationship, Sterling Community Service Foundation, or South Bay Division.

Men’s Weekend enrollment activities and requirements

The Nation of Men encourages men to live and share the weekend.  There are no enrollment targets or required activities.
