BYLAWS OF
 THE NATION OF MEN

A Public Benefit Corporation

ARTICLE I
 NAME AND AFFILIATION

The name of the organization shall be The Nation of Men.


ARTICLE 2 
PURPOSE

The purpose of The Nation of Men is to support and honor men, teams and community.


ARTICLE 3
 STRUCTURE

The Nation of Men is organized into geographical chapters. Each chapter is organized to support and honor men, teams, and community.


ARTICLE 4 
RULES AND DECISIONS

The Nation of Men's rules and standards are contained in this written Charter.

Changes to the Charter must be ratified by a vote of two-thirds of the membership attending a General Meeting. Proposed changes must be presented in writing at a Chapter Representatives' meeting at least two weeks prior to the General Meeting, and must be approved by a simple majority of the chapters represented at the Chapter Representatives' meeting to go before the full Nation of Men membership.

There are no proxy votes — only those who attend may vote.

All other decisions are made by representatives from the chapters.


ARTICLE 5 
MEMBERSHIP

Members must be men, 18 years of age or older.

Men are encouraged to be on teams but it is not required. A team can be comprised of both members and nonmembers; that is, the whole team does not need to be in The Nation of Men.

Dues must he paid in full to maintain membership.


ARTICLE 6 
NEW MEMBERS

Enrollment in the Nation of Men will be through attraction — as a natural result of its members participating in open activities and as a result of who we are. There are no enrollment targets or required enrollment activities. New members must he sponsored by a NoM member or a NoM team.


ARTICLE 7
LEADERSHIP

Each chapter of The Nation of Men will be led by a Chief, or Chiefs.

The Chiefs will be selected in a Primal Night style process.

There is no fixed term for Chiefs. Chiefs serve until they are replaced (a Chief is responsible for initiating the process of selecting his replacement) or are removed by a vote of no-confidence. Any team may bring a vote of no-confidence at any time; it is upheld by a majority vote of the members at a General Meeting. Either way, completing Chiefs are held in a position of honor.

The Chiefs will designate a man to represent the chapter at each Chapter Representative meeting.


ARTICLE 8
MEETINGS AND ACTIVITIES

Each Chapter will have a monthly General Meeting, to be held at the same time each month and, if possible, at the same place.

Attendance is not required at any meeting or activity.

Unless otherwise specified, all meetings and activities are open to members and guests of members. All activities must be sponsored by a team.

Chapter activities may be limited to members of that chapter or open to all NoM members and guests.

The Chiefs may call other, impromptu meetings.

Any Nation of Men member is invited to Chiefs' meetings.


ARTICLE 9
OPEN PROCEEDINGS, CONFIDENTIALITY

All proceedings are open to members and guests of members with the following exceptions:
- Members are expected to maintain the confidentiality of others.
- Some activities will be restricted to members only.
- The mailing lists are proprietary to each chapter of The Nation of Men and may not he distributed or used without the permission of the Chief(s).

The Charter may be openly discussed with anyone.


ARTICLE 10
COMMUNICATION

Each chapter will produce a regular newsletter.


ARTICLE 11
FINANCES

It is vital that each chapter of The Nation of Men he financially stable and that its finances are managed openly, conservatively, and legally.

Finances are managed by a Treasurer, who is a member of the management team. The Treasurer is required to report on the financial status at each Chiefs Meeting. He is required to publish a written financial report quarterly in the news letter.


ARTICLE 12
DUES

Annual dues are established by the Chief(s), in accordance with the budget. The amount is established on a per-man basis. Dues are due at the first General Meeting of each calendar year.


ARTICLE 13
 STANDARDS

Standards are governing principles, not requirements. Consequences are a mechanism men use to hold each other accountable to their standards
- Follow your passion.
- Speak the truth.
- Embrace all men, Honor women, Be an example to children.
- Keep your word.
- Maintain confidentiality.
- Honor commitments.
- Start and end on time.
- Have fun.


WRITTEN CONSENT OF CHIEF ADOPTING BYLAWS

The undersigned is a Chief of The Nation of Men, a California Public Benefit Corporation, and pursuant to the authority granted by the Chiefs, consents to and hereby does adopt the foregoing Bylaws as the Bylaws of this chapter.

Dated: 8/5/95
Donald Vance, Chief