Rules and Decisions

The South Bay Nation of Men's rules and standards are contained in this written Charter.
Changes to the Charter must be ratified by a vote of two-thirds of the membership attending a General Meeting. Proposed changes must be presented in writing at a Team Representatives' meeting at least two weeks prior to the General Meeting, and must be approved by a simple majority of the teams represented at the Team Representatives' meeting to go before the full South Bay Nation of Men membership. There are no proxy votes, only those who attend may vote.

All other decisions are made by the Chiefs.


Membership

Members must be men, 18 years of age or older.

Men are encouraged to be on teams but it is not required. A team can be comprised of both members and non-members; that is, the whole team does not need to be in the South Bay Nation of Men.

Dues must be paid in full to maintain membership.


New Members

There are no enrollment targets or required enrollment activities. New members must be sponsored by a NOM member or NOM team.


Leadership

The South Bay Nation of Men will be led by a Chief, or Chiefs.

The Chiefs will be selected in a Primal Night style process.

There is no fixed term for Chiefs. Chiefs serve until they are replaced (a Chief is responsible for initiating the process of selecting his replacement) or are removed by a vote of no-confidence. Any team may bring a vote of no-confidence at any time; it is upheld by a majority vote of the members at a General Meeting. Either way, completing Chiefs are held in a position of honor.


Meetings and Activities

There will be a monthly General Meeting to be held at the same time and place, unless changed by the Chief.

Attendance is not required at any meeting or activity.

Unless otherwise specified, all meetings and activities are open to all men. All activities must be sponsored by a team or other group of South Bay Nation of Men members.

The Chiefs may call other, impromptu meetings.

NOM members are invited to Chiefs' meetings.


Open Proceedings, Confidentiality

All proceedings are public with the following exceptions:
- Members are expected to maintain the confidentiality of others.
- Some activities will be restricted to members only.
- The mailing list is proprietary to the South Bay Nation of Men and may not be distributed or used without the permission of the Chiefs.

The Charter may be openly discussed with anyone.


Finances

It is vital that the South Bay Nation of Men be financially stable and that its finances are managed openly, conservatively, and legally.

The Treasurer is required to publish a written financial report each calendar quarter.


Dues

Annual dues are established by the Chiefs. Dues are due at the first General Meeting of each calendar year.

