Rules and Decisions

The South Bay Nation of Men (SBNoM)'s rules and standards are contained in this written Charter. Changes to the Charter must be ratified by a vote of two-thirds of the membership attending a General Meeting. Proposed changes must be presented via SBNoM-Essential 14 days prior to the General Meeting. There are no proxy votes — only those who attend may vote.

All decisions not otherwise prescribed in the Charter are made by the Chief.


Membership

Members must be men,18 years of age or older, who have met the membership requirements. Members are encouraged to be on teams but it is not required. A team can be comprised of both members and non-members; that is, the whole team does not need to be in SBNoM. Dues must be paid in full to maintain membership.


New Members

There are no formal enrollment targets or required enrollment activities.


Leadership

SBNoM is led by a Chief, or Co-Chiefs (herein “Chief”). The Chief is selected in a Primal Night style process, which is open only to SBNoM members.

There is no fixed term for Chiefs. Chiefs serve until they resign or are removed by a vote of “no-confidence.” Any SBNoM team may bring a vote of no-confidence at any time by notifying the members via SBNoM-Essential ten days prior to the General Meeting at which the vote will be held. A verdict of no confidence is upheld by a majority vote of the members at the General Meeting.

Completing Chiefs are held in a position of honor.


Continuity

The South Bay Nation of Men will have a board of trustees commonly called the Legacy Team made up of four local SBNoM members with at least three years tenure in SBNoM.

1)   Legacy Team members are appointed by the Chief.
2)  No more than two Legacy Team members can be members of the same SBNoM team.
3)  Each Legacy Team member will serve a term of two years.
4)  The term of Legacy Team members are staggered by six months. When a Legacy Team member resigns, the term of his replacement will be two years plus the length of time remaining on the resigning Legacy Team member’s term.
5)  Legacy Team members may not serve consecutive terms. After a six month period of not serving they may be appointed to an additional term.

 The purpose of the Legacy Team is:

1) To informally hold the Chief accountable to his vision and his duties under this Charter and according to the legacy of SBNoM.
2) To maintain records of the institutional infrastructure of SBNoM such as financial records and procedures; account passwords; insurance, tax and other essential documentation; event technology and traditions.
3) To ensure continuity of core functions that span chiefdoms.


Meetings and Activities

There will be a monthly General Meeting to be held at the same time and place, unless changed by the Chief.

Unless otherwise specified, all meetings and activities are open to all men. Attendance is not required at any meeting or activity. All activities must be sponsored by a team or other group of SBNoM members.


Confidentiality

Members are expected to maintain the confidentiality of others. The mailing list is proprietary to the South Bay Nation of Men and may not be distributed or used without the permission of the Chiefs.

The Charter may be openly discussed with anyone.


Finances

It is vital that the South Bay Nation of Men be financially stable and that its finances are managed openly, conservatively, and legally. The Treasurer is required to publish a written financial report each calendar quarter.

The Chief may not sign checks or otherwise unilaterally authorize transfer of money during his chiefdom, but may approve reimbursement of expenses or payment of obligations by communication with those authorized to sign on the accounts or initiate transfers of funds.


Dues

Annual dues are established by the Chief. Dues are payable at the first General Meeting of each calendar year.


Per April 5th, 2014 Vote as proposed on Essential: https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/nom-essential/conversations/topics/4265